##  Felipe Sánchez-Martínez
Also published as: Felipe Sánchez-Martinez, Felipe Sánchez Martínez
#### 2025
**D eMINT: Automated Language Debriefing for English Learners via AI Chatbot Analysis of Meeting Transcripts**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-OrtizProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XX: Volume 2
The objective of the DeMINT project is to develop a conversational tutoring system aimed at enhancing non-native English speakers’ language skills through post-meeting analysis of the transcriptions of video conferences in which they have participated. This paper describes the model developed and the results obtained through a human evaluation conducted with learners of English as a second language.
**FLORES + Mayas: Generating Textual Resources to Foster the Development of Language Technologies for Mayan Languages**Andrés Lou | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Víctor M. Sánchez-CartagenaProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XX: Volume 2
A significant percentage of the population of Guatemala and Mexico belongs to various Mayan indigenous communities, for whom language barriers lead to social, economic, and digital exclusion. The Mayan languages spoken by these communities remain severely underrepresented in terms of digital resources, which prevents them from leveraging the latest advances in artificial intelligence. This project addresses that problem by means of: 1) the digitisation and release of multiple printed linguistic resources; 2) the development of a high-quality parallel machine translation (MT) evaluation corpus for six Mayan languages. In doing so, we are paving the way for the development of MT systems that will facilitate the access for Mayan speakers to essential services such as healthcare or legal aid. The resources are produced with the essential participation of indigenous communities, whereby native speakers provide the necessary translation services, QA, and linguistic expertise. The project is funded by the Google Academic Research Awards and carried out in collaboration with the Proyecto Lingüístico Francisco Marroquín Foundation in Guatemala.
**Beyond the Mode: Sequence-Level Distillation of Multilingual Translation Models for Low-Resource Language Pairs**Aarón Galiano-Jiménez | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Víctor M. Sánchez-CartagenaFindings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2025
This paper delves into sequence-level knowledge distillation (KD) of multilingual pre-trained translation models. We posit that, beyond the approximated mode obtained via beam search, the whole output distribution of the teacher contains valuable insights for students. We explore the potential of n-best lists from beam search to guide student’s learning and then investigate alternative decoding methods to address observed issues like low variability and under-representation of infrequent tokens. Our research in data-limited scenarios reveals that although sampling methods can slightly compromise the translation quality of the teacher output compared to beam search based methods, they enrich the generated corpora with increased variability and lexical richness, ultimately enhancing student model performance and reducing the gender bias amplification commonly associated with KD.
#### 2024
**U niversitat d’Alacant’s Submission to the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain**Aaron Galiano Jimenez | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Perez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation
This paper describes the submissions of the Transducens group of the Universitat d’Alacant to the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain; in particular, the task focuses on the translation from Spanish into Aragonese, Aranese and Asturian. Our submissions use parallel and monolingual data to fine-tune the NLLB-1.3B model and to investigate the effectiveness of synthetic corpora and transfer-learning between related languages such as Catalan, Galician and Valencian. We also present a many-to-many multilingual neural machine translation model focused on the Romance languages of Spain.
**Findings of the WMT 2024 Shared Task Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain: Blending Rule-Based and Neural Systems**Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Juan Antonio Perez-Ortiz | Aaron Galiano Jimenez | Antoni OliverProceedings of the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation
This paper presents the results of the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT24) Shared Task “Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain”’. The task focused on the development of machine translation systems for three language pairs: Spanish-Aragonese, Spanish-Aranese, and Spanish-Asturian. 17 teams participated in the shared task with a total of 87 submissions. The baseline system for all language pairs was Apertium, a rule-based machine translation system that still performs competitively well, even in an era dominated by more advanced non-symbolic approaches. We report and discuss the results of the submitted systems, highlighting the strengths of both neural and rule-based approaches.
**Expanding the FLORES+ Multilingual Benchmark with Translations for Aragonese, Aranese, Asturian, and Valencian**Juan Antonio Perez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Aaron Galiano Jimenez | Antoni Oliver | Claudi Aventín-Boya | Alejandro Pardos | Cristina Valdés | Jusèp Loís Sans Socasau | Juan Pablo MartínezProceedings of the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation
In this paper, we describe the process of creating the FLORES+ datasets for several Romance languages spoken in Spain, namely Aragonese, Aranese, Asturian, and Valencian. The Aragonese and Aranese datasets are entirely new additions to the FLORES+ multilingual benchmark. An initial version of the Asturian dataset was already available in FLORES+, and our work focused on a thorough revision. Similarly, FLORES+ included a Catalan dataset, which we adapted to the Valencian variety spoken in the Valencian Community. The development of the Aragonese, Aranese, and revised Asturian FLORES+ datasets was undertaken as part of a WMT24 shared task on translation into low-resource languages of Spain.
**A Conversational Intelligent Tutoring System for Improving English Proficiency of Non-Native Speakers via Debriefing of Online Meeting Transcriptions**Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Roman Chernysh | Gabriel Mora-Rodríguez | Lev BerezhnoyProceedings of the 13th Workshop on Natural Language Processing for Computer Assisted Language Learning
**Curated Datasets and Neural Models for Machine Translation of Informal Registers between Mayan and Spanish Vernaculars**Andrés Lou | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Víctor Sánchez-CartagenaProceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers)
The Mayan languages comprise a language family with an ancient history, millions of speakers, and immense cultural value, that, nevertheless, remains severely underrepresented in terms of resources and global exposure. In this paper we develop, curate, and publicly release a set of corpora in several Mayan languages spoken in Guatemala and Southern Mexico, which we call MayanV. The datasets are parallel with Spanish, the dominant language of the region, and are taken from official native sources focused on representing informal, day-to-day, and non-domain-specific language. As such, and according to our dialectometric analysis, they differ in register from most other available resources. Additionally, we present neural machine translation models, trained on as many resources and Mayan languages as possible, and evaluated exclusively on our datasets. We observe lexical divergences between the dialects of Spanish in our resources and the more widespread written standard of Spanish, and that resources other than the ones we present do not seem to improve translation performance, indicating that many such resources may not accurately capture common, real-life language usage. The MayanV dataset is available at https://github.com/transducens/mayanv.
**Lightweight neural translation technologies for low-resource languages**Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Víctor Sánchez-Cartagena | Andrés Lou | Cristian García-Romero | Aarón Galiano-Jiménez | Miquel Esplà-GomisProceedings of the 25th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation (Volume 2)
The LiLowLa (“Lightweight neural translation technologies for low-resource languages”) project aims to enhance machine translation (MT) and translation memory (TM) technologies, particularly for low-resource language pairs, where adequate linguistic resources are scarce. The project started in September 2022 and will run till August 2025.
#### 2023
**Exploiting large pre-trained models for low-resource neural machine translation**Aarón Galiano-Jiménez | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-OrtizProceedings of the 24th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
Pre-trained models have drastically changed the field of natural language processing by providing a way to leverage large-scale language representations to various tasks. Some pre-trained models offer general-purpose representations, while others are specialized in particular tasks, like neural machine translation (NMT). Multilingual NMT-targeted systems are often fine-tuned for specific language pairs, but there is a lack of evidence-based best-practice recommendations to guide this process. Moreover, the trend towards even larger pre-trained models has made it challenging to deploy them in the computationally restrictive environments typically found in developing regions where low-resource languages are usually spoken. We propose a pipeline to tune the mBART50 pre-trained model to 8 diverse low-resource language pairs, and then distil the resulting system to obtain lightweight and more sustainable models. Our pipeline conveniently exploits back-translation, synthetic corpus filtering, and knowledge distillation to deliver efficient, yet powerful bilingual translation models 13 times smaller than the original pre-trained ones, but with close performance in terms of BLEU.
#### 2022
**Cross-lingual neural fuzzy matching for exploiting target-language monolingual corpora in computer-aided translation**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
Computer-aided translation (CAT) tools based on translation memories (MT) play a prominent role in the translation workflow of professional translators. However, the reduced availability of in-domain TMs, as compared to in-domain monolingual corpora, limits its adoption for a number of translation tasks. In this paper, we introduce a novel neural approach aimed at overcoming this limitation by exploiting not only TMs, but also in-domain target-language (TL) monolingual corpora, and still enabling a similar functionality to that offered by conventional TM-based CAT tools. Our approach relies on cross-lingual sentence embeddings to retrieve translation proposals from TL monolingual corpora, and on a neural model to estimate their post-editing effort. The paper presents an automatic evaluation of these techniques on four language pairs that shows that our approach can successfully exploit monolingual texts in a TM-based CAT environment, increasing the amount of useful translation proposals, and that our neural model for estimating the post-editing effort enables the combination of translation proposals obtained from monolingual corpora and from TMs in the usual way. A human evaluation performed on a single language pair confirms the results of the automatic evaluation and seems to indicate that the translation proposals retrieved with our approach are more useful than what the automatic evaluation shows.
**G oURMET – Machine Translation for Low-Resourced Languages**Peggy van der Kreeft | Alexandra Birch | Sevi Sariisik | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Wilker AzizProceedings of the 23rd Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
The GoURMET project, funded by the European Commission’s H2020 program (under grant agreement 825299), develops models for machine translation, in particular for low-resourced languages. Data, models and software releases as well as the GoURMET Translate Tool are made available as open source.
**M ultitraiNMT Erasmus+ project: Machine Translation Training for multilingual citizens (multitrainmt.eu)**Mikel L. Forcada | Pilar Sánchez-Gijón | Dorothy Kenny | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Juan Antonio Pérez Ortiz | Riccardo Superbo | Gema Ramírez Sánchez | Olga Torres-Hostench | Caroline RossiProceedings of the 23rd Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
The MultitraiNMT Erasmus+ project has developed an open innovative syl-labus in machine translation, focusing on neural machine translation (NMT) and targeting both language learners and translators. The training materials include an open access coursebook with more than 250 activities and a pedagogical NMT interface called MutNMT that allows users to learn how neural machine translation works. These materials will allow students to develop the technical and ethical skills and competences required to become informed, critical users of machine translation in their own language learn-ing and translation practice. The pro-ject started in July 2019 and it will end in July 2022.
#### 2021
**M ultiTraiNMT: Training Materials to Approach Neural Machine Translation from Scratch**Gema Ramírez-Sánchez | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Caroline Rossi | Dorothy Kenny | Riccardo Superbo | Pilar Sánchez-Gijón | Olga Torres-HostenchProceedings of the Translation and Interpreting Technology Online Conference
The MultiTraiNMT Erasmus+ project aims at developing an open innovative syllabus in neural machine translation (NMT) for language learners and translators as multilingual citizens. Machine translation is seen as a resource that can support citizens in their attempt to acquire and develop language skills if they are trained in an informed and critical way. Machine translation could thus help tackle the mismatch between the desired EU aim of having multilingual citizens who speak at least two foreign languages and the current situation in which citizens generally fall far short of this objective. The training materials consists of an open-access coursebook, an open-source NMT web application called MutNMT for training purposes, and corresponding activities.
**Surprise Language Challenge: Developing a Neural Machine Translation System between Pashto and English in Two Months**Alexandra Birch | Barry Haddow | Antonio Valerio Miceli Barone | Jindrich Helcl | Jonas Waldendorf | Felipe Sánchez Martínez | Mikel Forcada | Víctor Sánchez Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Wilker Aziz | Lina Murady | Sevi Sariisik | Peggy van der Kreeft | Kay MacquarrieProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XVIII: Research Track
In the media industry and the focus of global reporting can shift overnight. There is a compelling need to be able to develop new machine translation systems in a short period of time and in order to more efficiently cover quickly developing stories. As part of the EU project GoURMET and which focusses on low-resource machine translation and our media partners selected a surprise language for which a machine translation system had to be built and evaluated in two months(February and March 2021). The language selected was Pashto and an Indo-Iranian language spoken in Afghanistan and Pakistan and India. In this period we completed the full pipeline of development of a neural machine translation system: data crawling and cleaning and aligning and creating test sets and developing and testing models and and delivering them to the user partners. In this paperwe describe rapid data creation and experiments with transfer learning and pretraining for this low-resource language pair. We find that starting from an existing large model pre-trained on 50languages leads to far better BLEU scores than pretraining on one high-resource language pair with a smaller model. We also present human evaluation of our systems and which indicates that the resulting systems perform better than a freely available commercial system when translating from English into Pashto direction and and similarly when translating from Pashto into English.
**Rethinking Data Augmentation for Low-Resource Neural Machine Translation: A Multi-Task Learning Approach**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
In the context of neural machine translation, data augmentation (DA) techniques may be used for generating additional training samples when the available parallel data are scarce. Many DA approaches aim at expanding the support of the empirical data distribution by generating new sentence pairs that contain infrequent words, thus making it closer to the true data distribution of parallel sentences. In this paper, we propose to follow a completely different approach and present a multi-task DA approach in which we generate new sentence pairs with transformations, such as reversing the order of the target sentence, which produce unfluent target sentences. During training, these augmented sentences are used as auxiliary tasks in a multi-task framework with the aim of providing new contexts where the target prefix is not informative enough to predict the next word. This strengthens the encoder and forces the decoder to pay more attention to the source representations of the encoder. Experiments carried out on six low-resource translation tasks show consistent improvements over the baseline and over DA methods aiming at extending the support of the empirical data distribution. The systems trained with our approach rely more on the source tokens, are more robust against domain shift and suffer less hallucinations.
#### 2020
**Bicleaner at WMT 2020: Universitat d’Alacant-Prompsit’s submission to the parallel corpus filtering shared task**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Jaume Zaragoza-Bernabeu | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the Fifth Conference on Machine Translation
This paper describes the joint submission of Universitat d’Alacant and Prompsit Language Engineering to the WMT 2020 shared task on parallel corpus filtering. Our submission, based on the free/open-source tool Bicleaner, enhances it with Extremely Randomised Trees and lexical similarity features that account for the frequency of the words in the parallel sentences to determine if two sentences are parallel. To train this classifier we used the clean corpora provided for the task and synthetic noisy parallel sentences. In addition we re-score the output of Bicleaner using character-level language models and n-gram saturation.
**A multi-source approach for Breton–French hybrid machine translation**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Mikel L. Forcada | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the 22nd Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
Corpus-based approaches to machine translation (MT) have difficulties when the amount of parallel corpora to use for training is scarce, especially if the languages involved in the translation are highly inflected. This problem can be addressed from different perspectives, including data augmentation, transfer learning, and the use of additional resources, such as those used in rule-based MT. This paper focuses on the hybridisation of rule-based MT and neural MT for the Breton–French under-resourced language pair in an attempt to study to what extent the rule-based MT resources help improve the translation quality of the neural MT system for this particular under-resourced language pair. We combine both translation approaches in a multi-source neural MT architecture and find out that, even though the rule-based system has a low performance according to automatic evaluation metrics, using it leads to improved translation quality.
**An English-Swahili parallel corpus and its use for neural machine translation in the news domain**Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Mikel L. Forcada | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Andrew Secker | Susie Coleman | Julie WallProceedings of the 22nd Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
This paper describes our approach to create a neural machine translation system to translate between English and Swahili (both directions) in the news domain, as well as the process we followed to crawl the necessary parallel corpora from the Internet. We report the results of a pilot human evaluation performed by the news media organisations participating in the H2020 EU-funded project GoURMET.
**Understanding the effects of word-level linguistic annotations in under-resourced neural machine translation**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics
This paper studies the effects of word-level linguistic annotations in under-resourced neural machine translation, for which there is incomplete evidence in the literature. The study covers eight language pairs, different training corpus sizes, two architectures, and three types of annotation: dummy tags (with no linguistic information at all), part-of-speech tags, and morpho-syntactic description tags, which consist of part of speech and morphological features. These linguistic annotations are interleaved in the input or output streams as a single tag placed before each word. In order to measure the performance under each scenario, we use automatic evaluation metrics and perform automatic error classification. Our experiments show that, in general, source-language annotations are helpful and morpho-syntactic descriptions outperform part of speech for some language pairs. On the contrary, when words are annotated in the target language, part-of-speech tags systematically outperform morpho-syntactic description tags in terms of automatic evaluation metrics, even though the use of morpho-syntactic description tags improves the grammaticality of the output. We provide a detailed analysis of the reasons behind this result.
#### 2019
**Global Under-Resourced Media Translation ( GoURMET)**Alexandra Birch | Barry Haddow | Ivan Tito | Antonio Valerio Miceli Barone | Rachel Bawden | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. Forcada | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Víctor Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Wilker Aziz | Andrew Secker | Peggy van der KreeftProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XVII: Translator, Project and User Tracks
**Improving Translations by Combining Fuzzy-Match Repair with Automatic Post-Editing**John Ortega | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Marco Turchi | Matteo NegriProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XVII: Research Track
**The Universitat d’Alacant Submissions to the English-to-Kazakh News Translation Task at WMT 2019**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the Fourth Conference on Machine Translation (Volume 2: Shared Task Papers, Day 1)
This paper describes the two submissions of Universitat d’Alacant to the English-to-Kazakh news translation task at WMT 2019. Our submissions take advantage of monolingual data and parallel data from other language pairs by means of iterative backtranslation, pivot backtranslation and transfer learning. They also use linguistic information in two ways: morphological segmentation of Kazakh text, and integration of the output of a rule-based machine translation system. Our systems were ranked second in terms of chrF++ despite being built from an ensemble of only 2 independent training runs.
#### 2018
**UA lacant machine translation quality estimation at WMT 2018: a simple approach using phrase tables and feed-forward neural networks**Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the Third Conference on Machine Translation: Shared Task Papers
We describe the Universitat d’Alacant submissions to the word- and sentence-level machine translation (MT) quality estimation (QE) shared task at WMT 2018. Our approach to word-level MT QE builds on previous work to mark the words in the machine-translated sentence as _OK_ or _BAD_ , and is extended to determine if a word or sequence of words need to be inserted in the gap after each word. Our sentence-level submission simply uses the edit operations predicted by the word-level approach to approximate TER. The method presented ranked first in the sub-task of identifying insertions in gaps for three out of the six datasets, and second in the rest of them.
**Proceedings of the 21st Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation**Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Maja Popović | Celia Rico | André Martins | Joachim Van den Bogaert | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 21st Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
#### 2017
**One-parameter models for sentence-level post-editing effort estimation**Mikel L. Forcada | Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Lucia SpeciaProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XVI: Research Track
#### 2016
**UA lacant word-level and phrase-level machine translation quality estimation systems at WMT 2016**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel ForcadaProceedings of the First Conference on Machine Translation: Volume 2, Shared Task Papers
**Fuzzy-match repair using black-box machine translation systems: what can be expected?**John Ortega | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel ForcadaConferences of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas: MT Researchers' Track
Computer-aided translation (CAT) tools often use a translation memory (TM) as the key resource to assist translators. A TM contains translation units (TU) which are made up of source and target language segments; translators use the target segments in the TU suggested by the CAT tool by converting them into the desired translation. Proposals from TMs could be made more useful by using techniques such as fuzzy-match repair (FMR) which modify words in the target segment corresponding to mismatches identified in the source segment. Modifications in the target segment are done by translating the mismatched source sub-segments using an external source of bilingual information (SBI) and applying the translations to the corresponding positions in the target segment. Several combinations of translated sub-segments can be applied to the target segment which can produce multiple repair candidates. We provide a formal algorithmic description of a method that is capable of using any SBI to generate all possible fuzzy-match repairs and perform an oracle evaluation on three different language pairs to ascertain the potential of the method to improve translation productivity. Using DGT-TM translation memories and the machine system Apertium as the single source to build repair operators in three different language pairs, we show that the best repaired fuzzy matches are consistently closer to reference translations than either machine-translated segments or unrepaired fuzzy matches.
#### 2015
**Unsupervised training of maximum-entropy models for lexical selection in rule-based machine translation**Francis M. Tyers | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 18th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
**A general framework for minimizing translation effort: towards a principled combination of translation technologies in computer-aided translation**Mikel L. Forcada | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the 18th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
**Using on-line available sources of bilingual information for word-level machine translation quality estimation**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 18th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
**Proceedings of the 18th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation**İlknur Durgar El-Kahlout | Mehmed Özkan | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Gema Ramírez-Sánchez | Fred Hollowood | Andy WayProceedings of the 18th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
**UA lacant word-level machine translation quality estimation system at WMT 2015**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel ForcadaProceedings of the Tenth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation
#### 2014
**The UA-Prompsit hybrid machine translation system for the 2014 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation
**A bu-MaTran at WMT 2014 Translation Task: Two-step Data Selection and RBMT-Style Synthetic Rules**Raphael Rubino | Antonio Toral | Victor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Jorge Ferrández-Tordera | Sergio Ortiz-Rojas | Gema Ramírez-Sánchez | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Andy WayProceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation
**An efficient method to assist non-expert users in extending dictionaries by assigning stems and inflectional paradigms to unknknown words**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartegna | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Rafael C. Carrasco | Mikel L. Forcada | Juan Antonio Pérez-OrtizProceedings of the 17th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
**Using any machine translation source for fuzzy-match repair in a computer-aided translation setting**John E. Ortega | Felipe Sánchez-Martinez | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 11th Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas: MT Researchers Track
When a computer-assisted translation (CAT) tool does not find an exact match for the source segment to translate in its translation memory (TM), translators must use fuzzy matches that come from translation units in the translation memory that do not completely match the source segment. We explore the use of a fuzzy-match repair technique called patching to repair translation proposals from a TM in a CAT environment using any available machine translation system, or any external bilingual source, regardless of its internals. Patching attempts to aid CAT tool users by repairing fuzzy matches and proposing improved translations. Our results show that patching improves the quality of translation proposals and reduces the amount of edit operations to perform, especially when a specific set of restrictions is applied.
#### 2012
**UA lacant: Using Online Machine Translation for Cross-Lingual Textual Entailment**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. Forcada*SEM 2012: The First Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics – Volume 1: Proceedings of the main conference and the shared task, and Volume 2: Proceedings of the Sixth International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2012)
**Flexible finite-state lexical selection for rule-based machine translation**Francis M. Tyers | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 16th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
#### 2011
**The Universitat d’Alacant hybrid machine translation system for WMT 2011**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Juan Antonio Pérez-OrtizProceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation
**Enriching a statistical machine translation system trained on small parallel corpora with rule-based bilingual phrases**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Juan Antonio Pérez-OrtizProceedings of the International Conference Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing 2011
**Integrating shallow-transfer rules into phrase-based statistical machine translation**Víctor M. Sánchez-Cartagena | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Juan Antonio Pérez-OrtizProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XIII: Papers
**Using machine translation in computer-aided translation to suggest the target-side words to change**Miquel Esplà-Gomis | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of Machine Translation Summit XIII: Papers
**Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Free/Open-Source Rule-Based Machine Translation**Felipe Sánchez-Martinez | Juan Antonio Pérez-OrtizProceedings of the Second International Workshop on Free/Open-Source Rule-Based Machine Translation
**Choosing the best machine translation system to translate a sentence by using only source-language information**Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the 15th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
**Using word alignments to assist computer-aided translation users by marking which target-side words to change or keep unedited**Miquel Esplà | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 15th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
#### 2009
**A trigram part-of-speech tagger for the Apertium free/open-source machine translation platform**Zaid Md Abdul Wahab Sheikh | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezProceedings of the First International Workshop on Free/Open-Source Rule-Based Machine Translation
This paper describes the implementation of a second-order hidden Markov model (HMM) based part-of-speech tagger for the Apertium free/opensource rule-based machine translation platform. We describe the part-ofspeech (PoS) tagging approach in Apertium and how it is parametrised through a tagger definition file that defines: (1) the set of tags to be used and (2) constrain rules that can be used to forbid certain PoS tag sequences, thus refining the HMM parameters and increasing its tagging accuracy. The paper also reviews the Baum-Welch algorithm used to estimate the HMM parameters and compares the tagging accuracy achieved with that achieved by the original, first-order HMM-based PoS tagger in Apertium.
**Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Free/Open-Source Rule-Based Machine Translation**Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Felipe Sánchez-Martinez | Francis M. TyersProceedings of the First International Workshop on Free/Open-Source Rule-Based Machine Translation
**Marker-Based Filtering of Bilingual Phrase Pairs for SMT**Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Andy WayProceedings of the 13th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation
#### 2007
**Automatic induction of shallow-transfer rules for open-source machine translation**Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 11th Conference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Machine Translation of Natural Languages: Papers
#### 2005
**An Open-Source Shallow-Transfer Machine Translation Toolbox: Consequences of Its Release and Availability**Carme Armentano-Oller | Antonio M. Corbí-Bellot | Mikel L. Forcada | Mireia Ginestí-Rosell | Boyan Bonev | Sergio Ortiz-Rojas | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Gema Ramírez-Sánchez | Felipe Sánchez-MartínezWorkshop on open-source machine translation
By the time Machine Translation Summit X is held in September 2005, our group will have released an open-source machine translation toolbox as part of a large government-funded project involving four universities and three linguistic technology companies from Spain. The machine translation toolbox, which will most likely be released under a GPL-like license includes (a) the open-source engine itself, a modular shallow-transfer machine translation engine suitable for related languages and largely based upon that of systems we have already developed, such as interNOSTRUM for Spanish—Catalan and Traductor Universia for Spanish—Portuguese, (b) extensive documentation (including document type declarations) specifying the XML format of all linguistic (dictionaries, rules) and document format management files, (c) compilers converting these data into the high-speed (tens of thousands of words a second) format used by the engine, and (d) pilot linguistic data for Spanish—Catalan and Spanish—Galician and format management specifications for the HTML, RTF and plain text formats. After describing very briefly this toolbox, this paper aims at exploring possible consequences of the availability of this architecture, including the community-driven development of machine translation systems for languages lacking this kind of linguistic technology.
**An open-source shallow-transfer machine translation engine for the Romance languages of Spain**Antonio M. Corbi-Bellot | Mikel L. Forcada | Sergio Ortíz-Rojas | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Gema Ramírez-Sánchez | Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Iñaki Alegria | Aingeru Mayor | Kepa SarasolaProceedings of the 10th EAMT Conference: Practical applications of machine translation
#### 2004
**Cooperative unsupervised training of the part-of-speech taggers in a bidirectional machine translation system**Felipe Sánchez-Martínez | Juan Antonio Pérez-Ortiz | Mikel L. ForcadaProceedings of the 10th Conference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Machine Translation of Natural Languages
##### Co-authors
show all...


##### Venues
show all...


