## Frequently Asked Questions
Important information about the ACL Anthology
### Using the Anthology
##### How can I programmatically access the Anthology's data?
The Anthology’s data is hosted in our Github repo, which contains all the metadata for all its papers (under /data/xml) and their authors (data/yaml/people.yaml), the volumes those papers are organized into, and the real-world events that presented those volumes. The PDFs are hosted on our servers.
All of this data is accessible via 

```
pip install acl-anthology

```

Please see our repository documentation or the 
You may also be interested in learning how easy it is to cite our papers in a variety of citation formats.
##### How do I cite papers in the ACL Anthology?
Citing papers in the ACL Anthology is simple. We provide
  * bulk bibliographic exports
  * click-to-copy citation keys on each paper page
  * per-paper citation downloads


Our primary supported format is BibTeX. The simplest way to cite papers is download the bulk BibTeX exports, and then use the citation keys, which are often inferrable from the paper’s author list and title: `{authors}-{year}-{title-word}`, where
  * `{authors}` is the last names of the first one or two authors, separated by hyphens; if more than two authors, `etal` is used for the second author
  * `{year}` is the four-digit year of publication
  * `{title-word}` is the first significant word of the paper’s title; additional words are added if needed to create a unique bibkey


Some examples are galley-etal-2004-whats and huang-chiang-2005-better. For convenience, a button on each paper page provides click-to-copy access to the bibkey.
Bulk downloads for consolidated BibTeX files are available in the following variations.
  * _Overleaf-friendly_ : anthology-1.bib, anthology-2.bib etc. are sharded variants that are under 50 MB each, suitable for direct import into Overleaf repositories.
  * _Full, with abstracts_ : anthology+abstracts.bib.gz contains citations for all papers that exist in the Anthology, including abstracts.
  * _No abstracts_ : anthology.bib.gz contains all citations but removes abstracts, to save on space.
  * _No abstracts, uncompressed_ : anthology.bib is the same as the above, but provided uncompressed, for convenience.


For individual papers, buttons are provided to download citation data in a number of formats, including BibTeX, 
Finally, we also offer an XML paper feed, which is useful in tools like 
##### How do I link to publications in the ACL Anthology?
Every paper in the Anthology is assigned an Anthology ID. After 2020, identifiers are of the form `{year}.{venue}-{volume}.{#}`, where `{year}` is the four-digit year, `{venue}` a lowercased venue code comprising ASCII letters and digits, `{volume}` is a volume name or number, and `{#}` is the paper number. Prior to 2020, this identifier took the form `CYY-VPPP` or `CYY-VVPP`, where `C` is a collection, `YY` a two-digit year, `V` a volume, and `P` a paper ID. The **canonical URL** of an Anthology paper is given by appending this identifier to the Anthology’s base URL https://www.aclanthology.org/; e.g., https://www.aclanthology.org/2020.iwclul-1.4 (new style) or https://www.aclanthology.org/E91-1001 (old style). This is the paper’s landing page, which includes (among other things) a link to the PDF.
Many papers in the Anthology also have Digital Object Identifiers (DOIs). Both the DOIs and the canonical Anthology URLs embed the 8-character ACL Anthology Identifier. When available, DOI URLs will redirect to the Anthology canonical URL, and will be listed on that page.
Variations of the canonical URL can be used to access the PDF and citation format files directly:
  * Append `.pdf` to get the PDF, e.g., https://www.aclanthology.org/2020.iwclul-1.4.pdf
  * Append `.bib` to retrieve the BibTeX file, e.g., https://www.aclanthology.org/2020.iwclul-1.4.bib
  * Append `.xml` to get the https://www.aclanthology.org/2020.iwclul-1.4.xml


and so on.
### Submitting and correcting content
##### How can I fix my author page?
Please see this page for information on how to ensure that your author page has all and only your papers.
##### How can I submit corrections to papers?
There are a number of types of corrections. For an overview, you can see our our corrections page.
##### How can I submit my proceedings or journal to the Anthology?
Please see our submission guide.
##### How can I submit attachments to papers?
Anthology paper pages can include attachments submitted at the time of ingestion. This typically includes supplementary materials uploaded with the final (“camera-ready”) version of the paper, such as code or data tarballs or submission checklists.
We do not have a formal process for accepting attachments submitted after initial publication. If you have an important artifact that you would like to be archived with a paper (e.g., a unique poster or sought-after presentation), please 
Around 2020, we had a more formal process for accepting attachments to papers, but we retired this ability due to the cost in time to Anthology volunteers. We may restore this ability in the future.
### Community & other info
##### How can I stay up to date with the ACL Anthology?
You may be interested in the following:
  * Our limited social media presence on 
  * Our RSS news feed, containing all news posts published under our blog
  * An RSS paper feed, containing the latest 1,000 papers added to the Anthology


##### What is the copyright for materials in the ACL Anthology?
The ACL materials that are hosted in the Anthology are licensed to the general public under a liberal usage policy that allows unlimited reproduction, distribution and hosting of materials on any other website or medium, for non-commercial purposes. Prior to 2016, all ACL materials are licensed using the 
Note that these policies only cover ACL materials. As with the DOIs, this policy does not cover third-party materials. For reproduction privileges for such materials, please approach the respective organizations.
##### How can I help improve the ACL Anthology?
We welcome your contributions! In fact, since the Anthology is run entirely on volunteer energy, we need them. The best way to contribute is to browse our developer documentation.
##### How can I make suggestions or provide feedback on the Anthology?
We welcome your feedback! The most convenient way for us to receive it is for you to 
##### How does the ACL Anthology use Digital Object Identifiers (DOIs)?
The ACL uses DOIs to refer to scholarly works persistently in accordance with cross-disciplinary standards. Prior to 2012, ACL materials were assigned DOIs by the Association of Computational Machinery (ACM). Since 2014, ACL has assigned its own DOIs to materials using a convention based off of the ACL Anthology Identifiers. In 2015, ACL had to change DOI prefix due to accounting practices for the ACM.
Prefixes:
  * **2014–2015:** 10.3115
  * **2015–current:** 10.18653


_We strongly encourage the publication of DOIs in citing bibliographies to help better cross-reference ACL materials._
Note while the ACL Anthology hosts third-party materials coming from sister societies, these materials are hosted courtesy the ACL but are not assigned DOIs by the ACL due to costs and copyright limitations; the DOI information above is only applicable to ACL sponsored events by ACL, its chapters or SIGs.
##### What other resources are there based on the ACL Anthology?
The following papers provide overviews of the Anthology infrastructure at different points in time:
  * Two Decades of the ACL Anthology: Development, Impact, and Open Challenges (Bollmann et al., NLPOSS-WS 2023).
  * The ACL Anthology: Current State and Future Directions (Gildea et al., NLPOSS 2018). It is now out of date, but helped direct changes to the Anthology that occurred in 2019.


There are also many papers that make use of the Anthology’s data. Here we highlight a few:
  * On Forgetting to Cite Older Papers: An Analysis of the ACL Anthology (Bollmann & Elliott, ACL 2020)
  * NLP Scholar: An Interactive Visual Explorer for Natural Language Processing Literature (Mohammad, ACL 2020)
  * Mining Scientific Terms and their Definitions: A Study of the ACL Anthology (Jin et al., EMNLP 2013)
  * **plain text and other metadata** for a controlled subset of the ACL Anthology.


Many other publications based on the ACL Anthology exist, which you 
##### What software does the ACL Anthology use?
See our development information page.
